readme.rst, before:

utilpy
==============================================================================

Collection of shell utilities, written in Python.

(once they become large or more useful, they will probably get moved to
their own repositories)

| Scott Mcdermott <scott@smemsh.net>
| https://github.com/smemsh/utilpy/
| https://spdx.org/licenses/GPL-2.0

____

.. contents::

____


passgen
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

output random password from [[:alnum:]] ^ [0Ol1I], default 128 bits

- generates a random password with specifiable entropy
- chars: a-z, A-Z, 0-9, except: 0, O, l, 1, I (== 57 possible)
- default 22 char password (~128 bits entropy using our charset)
- uses python random.SystemRandom (on linux, os.urandom())
- uses random.choice() to map into range of suitable characters

args:

- arg1: number of bits of entropy the secret should have, default 128

calculation::

 passlen = 22
 setsize = len([[:alnum:]]) - 5 # ([^0Ol1I])
         = 26 + 26 + 10 - 5 = 57
 entropy = log2(setsize^passlen)
         = log2(setsize) * passlen
         = passlen * (ln(setsize) / ln(2))
         = 22 * (ln(57) / ln(2))
         = 128.3235803212

todo:

- allow to specify length instead of computing by entropy
- allow to specify character set

also:

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Password_strength


chromebak
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

dump chrome browser login data/passwords, stored as type=basic v10 records.

args: by default, tries to open the Brave profile named ``Default``,
otherwise give path to the profile's ``Login Data`` file if using
different browser variant (like Chrome or Chromium).


yamldump
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Pretty prints yaml files as python objects.

| args: any number of yaml files to print
| todo: optionally pre-pass through jinja2


count
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Counts lines in the standard input, or the given files.

- equivalent to `wc -l` (different output format if files given)
- 5x slower than C version (`wc -l`) in measurements, python-3.9.5


hostfill
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Looks for ipv4 addresses in the input and replaces with their
looked up name from `gethostbyaddr()` in the output.


lensort
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Sorts the input by line length, with a configurable filter length.


urlcode
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Provides the `urlencode` and `urldecode` commands, which take
all lines of standard input, and all words given in their
argument vector, and either encode or decode them for the http
url schemes, according to the rules specified in RFC3986 (via
`urllib.parse`).


pypath
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Prints ``sys.path`` on separate lines, using interpreter as given in
invocation (``python``, ``python2`` or ``python3`` for ``pypath``,
``py2path``, and ``py3path``, respectively).

example::

 $ py3path
 /home/scott/bin
 /opt/python-3.12.6/lib/python312.zip
 /opt/python-3.12.6/lib/python3.12
 /opt/python-3.12.6/lib/python3.12/lib-dynload
 /home/scott/.local/lib/python3.12/site-packages
 /opt/python-3.12.6/lib/python3.12/site-packages

..

Commit message:

+ gkeepbak: script to backup and maintain google keep notes
this is essential, we had accidental corruption and realized how
important these actually are, because they do not have any kind of undo
beyond exceedingly primitive, shallow undo of single session only, and
they have terrible collision handling with multiple sessions, and there
is no way to recover lost notes either, or lost revisions, and we have
no backup capability beyond google keep.

not acceptable, have to back these up, in fact frequently at that.  they
take about 5M right now so if we did one for every hour, weekday, week,
year, it would use 400+M eventually, and grow with time (unless we prune
it! which we should because there is a lot of junk in our keep!)

readme.rst, after:

utilpy
==============================================================================

Collection of shell utilities, written in Python.

(once they become large or more useful, they will probably get moved to
their own repositories)

| Scott Mcdermott <scott@smemsh.net>
| https://github.com/smemsh/utilpy/
| https://spdx.org/licenses/GPL-2.0

____

.. contents::

____


passgen
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

output random password from [[:alnum:]] ^ [0Ol1I], default 128 bits

- generates a random password with specifiable entropy
- chars: a-z, A-Z, 0-9, except: 0, O, l, 1, I (== 57 possible)
- default 22 char password (~128 bits entropy using our charset)
- uses python random.SystemRandom (on linux, os.urandom())
- uses random.choice() to map into range of suitable characters

args:

- arg1: number of bits of entropy the secret should have, default 128

calculation::

 passlen = 22
 setsize = len([[:alnum:]]) - 5 # ([^0Ol1I])
         = 26 + 26 + 10 - 5 = 57
 entropy = log2(setsize^passlen)
         = log2(setsize) * passlen
         = passlen * (ln(setsize) / ln(2))
         = 22 * (ln(57) / ln(2))
         = 128.3235803212

todo:

- allow to specify length instead of computing by entropy
- allow to specify character set

also:

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Password_strength


chromebak
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

dump chrome browser login data/passwords, stored as type=basic v10 records.

args: by default, tries to open the Brave profile named ``Default``,
otherwise give path to the profile's ``Login Data`` file if using
different browser variant (like Chrome or Chromium).



gkeepbak_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dump all google keep data to a json file, doing an incremental update
from the previous state, provided on stdin, writing updated state to
stdout (to keep for input next time), or empty if no changes.  Intended
to be run from cron for backing up google keep notes.

.. _gkeepbak: https://github.com/smemsh/utilpy/blob/master/gkeepbak


yamldump_
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Pretty prints yaml files as python objects.

| args: any number of yaml files to print
| todo: optionally pre-pass through jinja2


count
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Counts lines in the standard input, or the given files.

- equivalent to `wc -l` (different output format if files given)
- 5x slower than C version (`wc -l`) in measurements, python-3.9.5


hostfill
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Looks for ipv4 addresses in the input and replaces with their
looked up name from `gethostbyaddr()` in the output.


lensort
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Sorts the input by line length, with a configurable filter length.


urlcode
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Provides the `urlencode` and `urldecode` commands, which take
all lines of standard input, and all words given in their
argument vector, and either encode or decode them for the http
url schemes, according to the rules specified in RFC3986 (via
`urllib.parse`).


pypath
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Prints ``sys.path`` on separate lines, using interpreter as given in
invocation (``python``, ``python2`` or ``python3`` for ``pypath``,
``py2path``, and ``py3path``, respectively).

example::

 $ py3path
 /home/scott/bin
 /opt/python-3.12.6/lib/python312.zip
 /opt/python-3.12.6/lib/python3.12
 /opt/python-3.12.6/lib/python3.12/lib-dynload
 /home/scott/.local/lib/python3.12/site-packages
 /opt/python-3.12.6/lib/python3.12/site-packages

..
